Update contribution guidelines (#14738)
mixxxdj/mixxx: CONTRIBUTING.md

### Use of AI

The use of AI assistant is welcome in any contributions, but we expect the author of the PR to precisely understand any changes they would be submitting, thus ask them to review any generated content to ensure it is relevant and hallucination-free. As PR review is a constant challenge due to core member's time, if a Mixxx members suspects a PR to be exclusively vibe-coded and providing no value, they are allowed to close them right away with an automated notice, as following:

> Thanks for your contribution in Mixxx. Unfortunately, it looks like the change you are submitting is exclusively written by AI and does not match with our level of expectation. For this matter, we are going to close this PR, but if you expect this decision to be unfair or incorrect, please feel free to provide a review of your own PR and justify the code diff. We appreciate that you may not be an expert in technologies used in Mixxx, but we believe that our time can be better invested than providing advice to an LLM.
> Please check the CONTRIBUTING guideline for further details

> Please remember that these kind of abusive are particularly disrespectful to the Mixxx contributors, and we reserve ourself the right to ban any users that would repeatedly do so.

Reviewer: This paragraph does not read welcoming. I think it is sufficient to explain the issue of limited review resources an that we have no interest that our review comments are given 1 to 1 to a AI prompt. I would not place the possible thread of banning here. There are many other much more important issues for banning. 

> The use of AI assistant is welcome in any contributions

I think it is not. The user may use it, that's all.

> ### Use of AI
> 
> The use of AI assistant is welcome in any contributions, but we expect the author of the PR to precisely understand any changes they would be submitting, thus ask them to review any generated content to ensure it is relevant and hallucination-free. As PR review is a constant challenge due to core member's time, if a Mixxx members suspects a PR to be exclusively vibe-coded and providing no value, they are allowed to close them right away with an automated notice, as following:
> 
> > Thanks for your contribution in Mixxx. Unfortunately, it looks like the change you are submitting is exclusively written by AI and does not match with our level of expectation. For this matter, we are going to close this PR, but if you expect this decision to be unfair or incorrect, please feel free to provide a review of your own PR and justify the code diff. We appreciate that you may not be an expert in technologies used in Mixxx, but we believe that our time can be better invested than providing advice to an LLM.
> > Please check the CONTRIBUTING guideline for further details
> 
> Please remember that these kind of abusive are particularly disrespectful to the Mixxx contributors, and we reserve ourself the right to ban any users that would repeatedly do so.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Use of AI

The use of AI to assist the creation of a contribution is acceptable, but we expect the author of any PR to precisely understand all changes they have made, and we will ask authors to self-review all generated content to ensure it is relevant and hallucination-free. Due to the potentially large waste of time reviewing poor LLM code, the Mixxx Core Team has zero tolerance for ineffective vibes-based code produced by LLMs that are not fully understood by the PR author.

If a Mixxx member suspects that a PR is vibe-coded and provides little-to-no value, they may close it with a templated notice such as following:

> Thanks for your interest in Mixxx. Unfortunately, it looks like the change you are submitting is exclusively written by AI and does not match our expectations for code quality or coherence. At this time we are closing this PR. If we are in error, please feel free to provide a self-review of your own PR to explain the code differences. We appreciate that you may not be an expert in technologies used in Mixxx, but we believe that our time is better invested in helping other humans than providing advice to an LLM.
> Please check the CONTRIBUTING guideline for further details.

We have received a number of such pull requests and they are a drain on our limited reviewing resources. Repeat offenders producing multiple poor-quality contributions and who are not responsive to advice or change requests may be banned from the project.
```

Reviewer: Here’s a shorter and friendlier version without the template details done by GitHub copilote

We encourage thoughtful contributions and welcome the use of AI tools, as long as the author fully understands and reviews all changes. However, pull requests relying solely on AI-generated code without proper understanding may be closed to maintain the project's quality and to use our reviewing resources effectively.

Repeated low-quality submissions or unresponsiveness to feedback may result in removal from the project. Please review our CONTRIBUTING guidelines for more details. Thank you for supporting Mixxx!

> The use of AI assistant is welcome in any contributions, but we expect the author of the PR to precisely understand any changes they would be submitting, thus ask them to review any generated content to ensure it is relevant and hallucination-free. As PR review is a constant challenge due to core member's time, if a Mixxx members suspects a PR to be exclusively vibe-coded and providing no value, they are allowed to close them right away with an automated notice, as following:
> 
> > Thanks for your contribution in Mixxx. Unfortunately, it looks like the change you are submitting is exclusively written by AI and does not match with our level of expectation. For this matter, we are going to close this PR, but if you expect this decision to be unfair or incorrect, please feel free to provide a review of your own PR and justify the code diff. We appreciate that you may not be an expert in technologies used in Mixxx, but we believe that our time can be better invested than providing advice to an LLM.
> > Please check the CONTRIBUTING guideline for further details
> 
> Please remember that these kind of abusive are particularly disrespectful to the Mixxx contributors, and we reserve ourself the right to ban any users that would repeatedly do so.

Reviewer: And here my proposal based on that: 

```suggestion
We encourage thoughtful contributions and welcome the use of AI tools, as long as the author fully understands and reviews all changes. However, pull requests relying solely on AI-generated code without proper understanding may be closed it with a templated notice to maintain the project's quality and to use our reviewing resources effectively. We have received a number of such pull requests and they are a drain on our limited reviewing resources. If we are in error, please feel free to reopen the PR providing a self-review of your own code. 
```

Reviewer 2: this is also acceptable to me

* Merge PRs using a merge, to keep the original commits valid. Keep the default commit message "Merge pull request ..." with the reference to the pull request. In case where the PR contains broken (non-building) commits, back-and-forth commits or commits without a meaningful commit message that are not worth keeping, ask the author to squash the commits before merge. Alternatively you may ask the contributor to check "Allow edits and access to secrets by maintainers". Then you can squash locally or use the `/softfix` comment to squash remotely. See [Softfix](https://github.com/daschuer/softfix/?tab=readme-ov-file#softfix-a-pull-request)
* Default to open; only post in the private Zulip stream for discussions that have a reason to be private. Most of the time, post to a public Zulip stream so anyone can participate in the discussion.
* When Mixxx participates in Google Summer of Code, you may volunteer as a mentor if you like.

#### Change requests

> We recommend that core members use the `Change request` review state carefully due to the blocking aspect it represent in PRs. When a member submit a change request, they are expected to commit to provide quick feedback once the PR's author has addressed these changes in order not to block the PR. If a core member request changes and doesn't provide a feedback within 15 days following the author actor acting on the this request, another core member can discard their review in order to unblock the PR. We trust the second core member to ensure that the initial change request has correctly been addressed. When in doubt, the initial change request should be kept. Note that the [CODEOWNERS file](.github/CODEOWNERS) can be used to find another member with expertise to help assessing whether or not the initial concerned has been addressed.

Reviewer: This is not the process we have discussed on Zulip: 
``` 
-     PR written
-     reviewer leaves comments
-     time passes
-     author says "hey I think I addressed your comments"
-     time passes
-     author says "hi are you still around or can we dismiss the review?"
-     reviewer either says "yes please do not dismiss" or more time passes (at least a week or two) and then we dismiss
```

Reviewer 2: I agree, let's try to encode that process as we agreed, including the notification step and the double 1 week wait time.

#### Code owners

To help with expertise across Mixxx codebase, we use [Github's CODEOWNERS](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners) to highlight members who can provide advice and help addressing a thorough review. Beside the filename, code owners do not own the approval, and any core member can decide to merge changes in section they aren't expert in. Once again, we trust core embers will take the right decision and reach out to another core member when in doubt.

> Code owners member are initial defined on based on the last two years of contribution, and distributed across all active members. Any core members can add or remove themselves from the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Code owners member are initially defined on based on the last two years of contribution and distributed across all active members. Any core member can add or remove themselves from the list.
```

* Merge PRs using a merge, to keep the original commits valid. Keep the default commit message "Merge pull request ..." with the reference to the pull request. In case where the PR contains broken (non-building) commits, back-and-forth commits or commits without a meaningful commit message that are not worth keeping, ask the author to squash the commits before merge. Alternatively you may ask the contributor to check "Allow edits and access to secrets by maintainers". Then you can squash locally or use the `/softfix` comment to squash remotely. See [Softfix](https://github.com/daschuer/softfix/?tab=readme-ov-file#softfix-a-pull-request)
* Default to open; only post in the private Zulip stream for discussions that have a reason to be private. Most of the time, post to a public Zulip stream so anyone can participate in the discussion.
* When Mixxx participates in Google Summer of Code, you may volunteer as a mentor if you like.

#### Change requests

> We recommend that core members use the **Change request** review state carefully due to the blocking aspect it represents in PRs. When a member submits a change request, they are expected to commit to providing quick feedback once the PR's author has addressed these changes in order not to block the PR. If a core member requests changes and doesn't provide feedback within one week after the author has indicated that the changes have been addressed, the author may follow up with a reminder. If the reviewer still does not respond within another week, another core member can discard their review in order to unblock the PR. We trust the second core member to ensure that the initial change request has been correctly addressed. When in doubt, the initial change request should be kept. Note that the [CODEOWNERS file](.github/CODEOWNERS) can be used to find another member with expertise to help assessing whether or not the initial concerned has been addressed.

Author: Of course. The precision here is not to discourage the use of it, but rather raising awareness on the fact it should be used mindfully. I think it's worth to say that many comments (not change request review) still gets looked at, and most of all help get other reviewers consideration on whether or not they should approve a PR. (In other term, if somebody put a comment on a PR, I'm much likely going to wait until this gets addressed or get a good justification before I merge this PR even if it isn't a change request)
Please note I really do value the work of reviewers, if you feel that you need to put the foot down, then you should do it! But also, you should trust other core members to do the right thing and not simply ignore your comments. We need to build a better symbiosis between the members of the team IMHO.

> #### Code owners
> 
> To help with expertise across Mixxx codebase, we use [Github's CODEOWNERS](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners) to highlight members who can provide advice and help addressing a thorough review. Beside the filename, code owners do not own the approval, and any core member can decide to merge changes in section they aren't expert in. Once again, we trust core embers will take the right decision and reach out to another core member when in doubt.
> 
> Code owners member are initially defined on based on the last two years of contribution and distributed across all active members. Any core member can add or remove themselves from the list.

Reviewer: We have no condense for this concept.  
```suggestion
```
